Container Management

At this point, we have both our bg-container and a-container running, but we're really only going to work on our a-container from here on out. We also want to give it a name and perform some other general management and cleanup tasks on our server.

First, let's consider stopping and starting our server. We know start starts our container. Other commands are similarly self-explanatory. docker stop will shut down a container, while restart will stop and then start it again. Let's just shut down our bg-container with a docker stop.

docker stop bg-container
And since we no longer need this container, we can remove it.

docker rm bg-container
But what about our other unneeded containers? We could remove these either by looking up their names or IDs and removing them via the rm command. Alternatively, we can remove all our stopped containers in one go, which we'll do via docker container prune.

docker container prune
Now if we list all our containers, we only have the single, running container left.

docker container ls -a
Finally, let's work with our remaining container a little. We've installed nginx on it, so it's safe to assume this is actually a web server. Let's rename it to reflect this.

docker rename a-container web01
Finally, we can perform a simple performance check on our container by running docker stats against it, outputting our CPU, memory, and process information.

docker stats
This will output the information for all containers. We only have the one right now, but if we needed to specify, we could add the container name at the end of the command.

Wrap-Up
docker stop <container>: Stop a container

docker restart <container>: Restart a container

docker rm <container>: Remove a container (more than one container can be specified)

docker container prune: Remove all stopped containers

docker rename <container> <new-name>: Rename a

container

docker stats: List resource stats for all containers

docker stats <container>: List resource stats for the specified container

References
Docker Cheat Sheet
https://www.docker.com/sites/default/files/d8/2019-09/docker-cheat-sheet.pdf
